UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
ALLEN D. ULRICH, OF KOKOMO, INDIANA.
HORSE-COLLAR.
SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 480,000, dated August 2, 1892.
Application filed August 24, 1891. Serial No. 403,589. (No model.)
To all whom it may concern:
Be it known that I, ALLEN D. ULRICH, a
citizen of the United States, residing at Ko-
komo, in the county of Howard and State
5 of Indiana, have invented certain new and
useful Improvements in Horse-Collars; and I
do hereby declare the following to be a full,
clear, and exact description of the invention,
such as will enable others skilled in the art to
10 which it appertains to make and use the same.
This invention relates to horse-collars.
Heretofore horse-collars have been usually
so constructed as to serve as a mere padding
to support stiff hames upon the breast and
15 shoulders of a horse, and such collars, how-
ever well padded, frequently gall the horse.
In many styles of harness, and especially
in light harness of modern style, the hames
and collar are dispensed with and a flexible
20 breast-strap or collar is substituted with great
advantage to bear the draft.
The object of this invention is to produce
a horse-collar with sufficient stiffness at each
side to distribute the strain of draft up and
25 down the whole shoulder and to maintain the
collarin proper form and yet with the flexibility
in front of a mere breast-strap and with like
flexibility over the top, and at the same time
to produce a horse-collar in a single piece of
30 light weight and stylish appearance.
To this end my invention consists in a
horse-collar shaped and constructed as here-
inafter described and claimed, reference be-
ing had to the accompanying drawings, in
35 which―
Figure I is a front view of a collar accord-
ing to my invention spread out flat and
showing at the right the preferred form and
at the left a modification thereof, certain
40 parts at each side being broken away to show
the interior arrangement in a somewhat sec-
tional view. Fig. II is a side view of the collar
in position for service.
5 represents the leather forming the outer
45 side or facing of the collar, and it may be one
continuous piece to surround the horse's
neck, or for greater economy in cutting the
leather it may be made of two parts perma-
ently joined together at the breast 6 and be
50 provided with a buckle 7 and a strap 8 to en-
gage the buckle, whereby the upper portion
of the collar may be opened to pass it around
the horse's neck and then be made fast when
in position for service.
The collar may have any suitable padding 55
9 up and down its sides to serve as cushions
upon the horse's shoulder, and it may be
made of any number of thicknesses of leather
suitably secured together, and it may further
be provided with straps 10, to which the 60
traces of the harness may be attached.
11 represents a pair of stiffeners to perform
the usual service of hames; but these stiffen-
ers are permanently secured to the sides of
the collar in any manner usual in harness- 65
making-such, for example, as placing a stiff-
ener upon the facing 5 and sewing down over
it a cover 12 to fit tightly upon it like a
sheath to keep it closely in place, as seen at
the right in Fig. I, or the stiffener may be 7c
placed between the outer facing 5 and a lin-
ing 13, as shown at the left. In either case
these stiffeners must be permanently fixed to
the sides of a collar to serve the purpose of
spreading the strain of the draft which takes 75
place at the straps 10 evenly over the horse's
shoulders up and down their whole height;
but the stiffeners must not be joined nor in
any way rigidly connected across the breast
at 6, nor in the region of the strap 8; but the So
collar must be left flexible in both these places,
so that it may readily bend to accommodate
every move of the horse's shoulders from side
to side. This permits each side of the collar
to bear closely upon the horse's shoulders 85
at all times while the shoulders are moving
forward or backward and upward and down-
ward without being slipped at every such
move, as would be the case where the two
sides of the collar are rigidly joined to act 90
as a unit. By this means the horse is enabled
to exert his whole strength without being
annoyed by the sliding and chafing of the
collar.
The stiffeners 11 are preferably made of 95
steel; but they may also be made of other metal
or of wood or any other suitably-stiff material
to accomplish the purpose stated. The portion
6 crossing the breast may be made of webbing
or leather or even a few links of chain to permit ICO
the desired flexibility, whereby the pad upon
each shoulder is permitted to move forward