2
480,000
and back with the horse's shoulder in traveling
without lifting or displacing the opposite pad,
thus avoiding chafing the horse. The nar-
row stiffener has all the advantage of spread-
5 ing the strain of the trace up and down the
shoulder without forming a stiff collar. The
trace being hitched to the collar instead of to
the stiffener or hame holds the flexible por-
tion of the collar straight and smooth and
10 has no tendency to press the stiffener upon
the shoulder, both of which advantages would
be lost if the trace were hitched, as usual, to
the hame or stiffener.
This collar may be made light or heavy
15 and in any style required either for service
or to suit the taste of the purchaser, and by
dispensing with hames it is more simple and
easier of application than the usual draft-
collar and hames, and yet it supplies to the
20 light road-harness all the advantages of
hames without their cumbersome and un-
sightly appearance. When collars are made
in this way for double harness, the ring or
loop-iron for attaching the pole-strap may be
25 fixed part way across the flexible portion, as
|
shown in dotted lines at 14; but this portion
must still be left flexible at the sides of the
iron to accord with my invention.
Having thus fully described my invention,
what I believe to be new, and desire to secure 30
by Letters Patent, is the following:
A horse-collar having cushioned or padded
side portions, a flexible unpadded portion
joining the side portions in front, a flexible
portion to join the pads at the top, stiffeners 35
permanently secured up and down the shoul-
ders upon the pads, and means for attaching
traces to the pad portions at a distance from
the stiffeners, substantially as described,
whereby the collar is adapted to bend freely 40.
at the front and top to permit the pads to
rest steadily on the horse's shoulders while
each shoulder advances and recedes to avoid
chafing.
In testimony whereof I affix my signature in 45
presence of two witnesses.
Witnesses:
ALLEN D. ULRICH.
THOMAS C. MCGOVEN,
JOHN J. ULRICH.